Yapa Intersphereal Logistics was founded by Mani Yapa in the year 26,326 (FaeDraco calendar), about 20 years ago. At it's inception, the company was known as Yapa Clan Shipping. Consisting of only a dozen freight ships donated by Mani's family, a fabulously wealthy loxodon dynasty, Yapa Clan Shipping was a scrappy newcomer on the scene. Although Mani's connections helped the company land it's early contracts, Yapa Clan Shipping established itself as the most reliable shipping service within Emerald Armada borders.

Five years after its founding, Yapa Clan  Shipping received a major boon that fueled the company's  growth into the mammoth it is today. Mani Yapa, an adventurer in his own right, aided the Emerald Armada in dismantling a drug slavery ring near Remote Station Tango, and in slaying an evil wizard. As a reward for his assistance, Yapa Clan Shipping became the only private transportation and delivery service that has free use of Emerald Armada hyperlane routes.

These routes are faster than routes typically used for intersphereal travel and have the benefit of being regularly patrolled by Armada pickets. With the ability to deliver goods faster than the competition, and with practically zero risk of piracy, Mani grew the business into the premiere company for moving people and goods throughout Vaardspace and regions surrounding.

Although he eschews the limelight, Mani still remains very active in the direction and operations of the company from his family home on Akamara. His employees say they enjoy working for him and that he is generous in both compensation and beneficence. He is known to visit shipping and transportation hubs to personally meet and recognize employees. He is so personable with his drivers that a common joke is that Mani actually runs the business from a roadside diner and not the Yapa Clan palace.