# Emerald Armada
The Emerald Armada was founded by elves approximately 26,000 years ago. Elves are not native to the material plane. They are from the Feywild, like gnomes and fairies. Elves first entered the material realm at least one hundred thousand years before the Disconcordance. However, the distinct group of elves who eventually founded the Emerald Armada migrated to the material plane only two generations before the Disconcordance.

They sought a home, not in the forests, not in gardens, nor on mountaintops, but in the spheres. They wanted to live among the stars and become stewards to others who explore the cosmos. Love for the clear emptiness of space, the beauty and power of the stars, and the graceful motion of the spheres filled them with vibrancy and sustenance. These elves befriended (and endeared themselves to) cosmic dragons, and they delighted in exploring the spheres together. 

The dragons who ushered the elves into the cosmos became aware of Vecna's threat shortly prior to the Disconcordance. Dragons warned the elves that a great evil sought to fracture and consume the very cosmos they so adored, but the elves were so entranced by the beauty of the cosmos that they did not realize how dangerous Vecna was until he had begun the Disconcordance. Once they realized he planned to break, pervert, and eradicate the very universe they so loved, they became utterly devoted to his defeat. They pledged to dragon-kind that they would end Vecna's destructive machinations and preserve the fabric of reality.

After Vecna's defeat, the dragons rewarded the elves with a collection of refurbished spelljamming ships left by a long-faded intersphereal civilization known as the Arcane. The elves began to explore other spheres and learn about the peoples who lived there.

As they explored, the elves learned of an organization formed by their far-removed kin who sought the preservation of nature, who called themselves the Emerald Enclave. The elves' hearts opened to members of the Enclave, as they saw the beauty of nature in the structure of the spheres. Thus, the elves invited the defenders of nature into the cosmos and in turn adopted their moniker. The Emerald Armada was born.

The great wyrms of the galaxy approved of this fusion and aided the Armada in finding new routes through the phlogiston to other spheres. In return, the elves pledged to unite a federation of planets, end slavery within their borders, and exterminate aberrations.